Jacob Burrill and Bernie Jones Project 9 for CS/MATH 215. 

  While a narrative paragraph is featured within the Jupyter Notebook for this Project, we wanted to take the time to provide some further narrative building to our project. Since Jose Cedeno became the head coach of Whitman College, the program has grown to be a perennial contender in the Northwest Conference (NWC). This wasn't always the case, as Whitman for quite some time had been known as a middle to bottom dweller program in terms of results in eras where schools such as Whitworth and University of Puget Sound dominated on the conference and national stage. With this framework in mind, our project attempts to analyze this semesters Fall 2023 season which saw Whitman College finish in third place. Comparing Whitman's stats to that of the conference winner Pacific Lutheran University, we hope to garner a bit of understanding into how coaches may be making decisions on who plays, who may be showing potential for next season (high efficiency on few minutes), and other potential decision making factors. 
From Whitman's [roster](https://athletics.whitman.edu/sports/mens-soccer/stats/2023) and [statistics](https://athletics.whitman.edu/sports/mens-soccer/stats/2023) pages, in addition to Pacific Lutheran's [roster](https://golutes.com/sports/mens-soccer/roster) and [statistics](https://golutes.com/sports/mens-soccer/stats/2023), we scrape information, attempting to glean necessary data for later analysis. Much of the data wrangling will be clean up due to discrepancies in inputting statistics for the Whitman program. Duplicate players will have to be addressed as well as creating identifiers for later school comparisons. From the scraped content, we create various dataframes for selective criteria such as position, minutes, points, and later create metrics such as efficiency. Visualizing these factors we attempt to provide insight into our original wonderings of coaching staff thought processes. 
  As an above and beyond component, we scrape Whitworth's [roster](https://whitworthpirates.com/sports/mens-soccer/roster) and [statistics](https://whitworthpirates.com/sports/mens-soccer/stats) pages to compare against the Conference Player of the Year Cole Friesen and his teammates (2nd place in NWC). This above and beyond component leverages a lot of existing architecture in terms of scraping techniques, however, we create a new dataframe of all the schools and then do similar analysis to that of before. Here we learn things such as Whitworth almost evenly splitting minutes between their goalkeepers, that there wasn’t a super sub with a tremendous efficiency metric for Whitworth unlike Owen at PLU, and other findings. By doing both program specific analysis and also analysis across the three programs, we gain insight into some of the stats that were contributed by the three teams that finished first through third in the conference. 
  Feel free to contact either Bernie (jonesbc@whitman.edu) or Jacob (burrillj@whitman.edu) for any questions pertaining to this project. 
